## Remote Working
In modern contact centres of all sizes, its common place for advisors to work remotely as it provides flexibility and offers improved work–life balance. It also offers the organisation the opportunity to expand the catchment area for new hires and makes it easier to provide telephony support during unexpected rises in contact volumes.
With a cloud-based contact centre solution, facilitating remote working is simple and efficient. These solutions are often provided as-a-service so remote workers can connect to the platform using a standard internet connection and soft phones, regardless of geographic location. In addition, all agent activity can be monitored and reported on - something that is not available to the FSA using the current Avaya telephony platform.

## Reducing Hassle With Less Hardware
With an on-premise solution, the installation and configuration can take up to several months to complete. In the cloud, however, implementations are much faster to deploy, typically requiring configuration of the system which can be achieved within days or weeks rather than months. With many cloud-based contact centre solutions, there is no upfront investment for hardware or software. The solution can be offered through a monthly subscription user fee which usually includes training, support and maintenance as well as upgrades and new releases of features which are available to all customers and don’t rely on your IT teams conducting deployments and testing.

## Unifying Disparate Communication Channels
With so many methods of communication at consumers’ fingertips – be it voice, video, social media, phone or email – employees are now facing an explosion of disjointed inbound information in addition to their own internal communications channels, such as Slack or Skype. This often leads to a disjointed service and a system that is difficult and clunky for staff to use, resulting in substandard customer service and a sub-par user experience.
Unifying communications channels and contact centre solutions means different parts of the business are no longer siloed. Instead, there’s a steady flow of customer information between different teams resulting in improved cross-team collaboration. Not only do staff benefit from having all customer information in one place, but customers benefit from dealing with advisors who can deliver a high quality service.

## Cloud-Based Intelligent Call Routing
One of the main frustrations for customers is being passed between multiple advisors to have their enquiry answered. With intelligent call routing, the caller can automatically be identified along with their reason for calling, and they can be connected by AI directly to the right expert to resolve their call at the first outreach. Alternatively, more “traditional” call routing can be used based on skill sets, teams etc and prioritised accordingly. This would allow consumers and FBO's to speak to the "expert" immediately or be transferred quickly and easily should they come through to the wrong team for whatever reason (e.g. selecting the wrong IVR option).

## Measuring Performance
Cloud-based solutions make it easier to accurately measure various metrics – from customers’ preferred channels to employee performance.
Having this visibility and insight enables informed decision making and the ability to compare organisation performance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis to see how operations are impacting your organisation over time. Additionally, it’s easier to manage and engage your workforce, review advisor  / team performance and workload, as well as identify where employees might need support and training.

## Speeding up the Implementation of New Technology
Any organisation handling enquiries via telephone, email and other channels such as social media requires the ability to react to changes quickly. Maybe you’re adding additional teams, load balancing enquiry volumes during peaks, managing incidents or disasters or setting up a work-from-home model. Cloud contact centre apps make it possible to get these done in hours rather than days in premises world. For example, you’re able to instantly make changes to routing or IVR scripts without having to wait for IT. Today’s cloud contact centre platforms have an intuitive and integrated desktop with pre-built CRM integration, allowing your advisors to work from a single user interface with access to all the required customer information. This helps them focus on resolving issues faster rather than spending time looking for information across multiple applications. Open APIs make it easier for the contact centre to be integrated with other apps & systems and responsibility for maintenance is taken away from your IT teams. 

## Managing Data
The result of today’s omni-channel climate is an enormous amount of data that companies can use to improve their business, advisor performance and customer experience. The decision for the FSA is how important this is when considering the volume and nature of enquiries received. The real power of the data lies in the predictive capabilities that data provides, tapping into data to analyse customer history and behaviour to deliver highly responsive, fully contextual and efficient service. This is the only way for brands to deliver the kind of hyper-personalised experience customers will increasingly demand but should be balanced against customer expectations.
The best way to process, in real-time, the vast and ever-growing data resulting from omni-channel interactions is through the cloud. Organisations using solutions that are not designed for contact centres or on-premise contact centre solutions will be hard pressed to process all of that data. And that’s a primary reason more and more organisations are moving to a cloud contact centre solution.

## Improving Disaster Recovery
With cloud solutions typically utilising multiple data centres, distributed deployment provides the ultimate in geographic fault tolerance and disaster recovery. New features and functionality can also be added at an incredible rate with little to no downtime to allow the organisation to react effectively and ensure continuity of service.

## Integrating Pre-Built Applications
To meet potential organisation needs of extending any solutions implemented within the UK team at FSA or to other regional teams in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales, it’s a good idea to make use of pre-built applications that can easily be integrated into the cloud. True cloud solutions – those built with a stateless, multi-tenant architecture – means it’s fast to deploy new functionality and you don’t need large teams of in house developers or expertise to do so.

## Enhancing Scalability and Flexibility
With on-premise traditional deployment models companies have to scale up to support peak requirements.  This often leaves paid-for capacity lying idle during the rest of the year. Simply put, the cost associated with the service provision is static at the highest cost point whilst the profit varies throughout the year.  Cloud-based technology and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) pricing models can change all of that. The ability to add advisors across centralised or distributed locations can make the difference between success and failure to respond to customer demand. An advantage of cloud-based technology is the ability to scale up or down without the need for capital investment or additional hardware or software. The system is continuously kept up to date with new releases which are automatically applied, leading to fewer disruptions in terms of downtime, while internal IT teams work on upgrades.  This represents a way to reduce costs and avoid the dreaded “our systems are down today” conversation with customers.

## Boosting Advisor Experience
Bringing user-friendly technology into the contact centre improves an advisor’s experience and allows them to provide a personalised and fast service on any channel. It also improves visibility in the contact centre and enables advisors to make changes almost instantly and adapt to situations. In addition, the cloud enables contact centres to support home working, providing additional mobility that adapts to employees’ lifestyles and supports retention. There are also gamification applications that are available in the cloud, which can be used to drive up employee engagement. As well as this, there has been a huge uptake in providing service advisors with cloud collaboration tools that allow them to collaborate with other members of the contact centre team, acting as a driver of productivity as well as improving retention.

## Ensuring Business Continuity
Cloud technology in the contact centre helps ensure continuity in three main ways. First, good cloud solutions deliver a high level of disaster recovery integrally, meaning clients should not require significant additional cover. For clients with existing on-site customer premises equipment, cloud solutions can also provide reserve back-up disaster-recovery protection. Second, cloud contact centres enable advisors to connect to the technology platform and necessary applications from anywhere that has internet access. Companies can therefore continue to service the client base – even in an outage – reducing the impact of what could otherwise have been a disastrous situation, resulting in dropped calls, negative customer experiences and lost revenue. Third, cloud-based solutions are ideally suited to supporting homeworkers, allowing businesses to benefit from a pool of advisors dispersed across a geographic territory or region that can ‘ramp up’ quickly in the event of one or more facilities going down.

## Offering Resource Boosting Capability at Times of Peak Demand
Cloud contact centres offer customers genuine added value when there is a burst in demand.
The key benefit is the ability to add extra head count quickly and easily. Whenever there is a spike in inbound customer interactions – when there are food related incidents, for example – that is when cloud contact centres really come into their own. The key benefit is the ability to add extra head count quickly and easily, either from another office facility or alternatively by bringing homeworkers online to meet the latest spike in demand.

## Achieving Better Budgeting
Making use of cloud solutions helps businesses to move their financial burden from CAPEX to OPEX.
OPEX budgeting is generally a more financially attractive option for businesses buying new software applications as it helps eliminate the need for significant capital expenditure. The enhanced budgeting that this provides helps to facilitate better planning and staffing decisions, as well as freeing up in-house IT from contact centre operations. It is an increasingly strong selling point of cloud contact centres that their OPEX model helps streamline cashflow for the business and provides instant relief from extensive capital expense budget requests.
